.TH qexec 1 "$Date$" "$Revision$" "PBS TOOLS"

.SH NAME
qexec \- Workalike for SGE qlogin, qrsh, and qsh commands

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qexec
[qsub_arguments]
.PP
.B qlogin
[qsub_arguments]
.PP
.B qrsh
[qsub_arguments] [command [cmdargs]]
.PP
.B qsh
[qsub_arguments]
.PP
.B qmpiexec
[qsub_arguments] [mpiexec_arguments] command [cmdargs]
.PP
.B qmpirun
[qsub_arguments] [mpiexec_arguments] command [cmdargs]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qexec
is a wrapper around the PBS/TORQUE
.B qsub \-I
interactive job submission functionality, which implements a number of
different interactive job submission behaviors depending on how it is
invoked.  Several of these behaviors are similar to the Sun Grid
Engine (SGE) commands of the same names.
.PP
The default behavior for
.B qexec
(also known as
.B qlogin
mode) behaves like the rlogin command.  It initiates an interactive
session on a compute node, with resource limits as specified on the
command line.
.PP
In 
.B qrsh
mode, qexec behaves like the rsh command.  If a command is specified,
it will execute that command interactively in the context of a batch
job.  If a command is not specified, qrsh will act like qlogin.
.PP
The
.B qsh
mode of qexec is similar to
.B qlogin
mode, in that it initiates an interactive session.  However, instead
of that interactive session being a shell, it is contained in an xterm
window.  Note that X11 remote display most be working properly for qsh
to succeed.
.PP
The 
.B qmpiexec
and
.B qmpirun
modes of qexec interactively execute a single MPI program in the
current working directory.

.SH OPTIONS
All variations of qexec accept any valid PBS/TORQUE arguments to
.BR qsub (1B)
.  
.B qmpiexec
and
.B qmpirun
also accept virtually any valid argument to 
.BR mpiexec (1).

.SH EXAMPLES
The following are all equivalent to each other, in that they all
request a 1-hour interactive session with access to a total of two
4-processor nodes:
.nf
.B qexec -l nodes=2:ppn=4,walltime=1:00:00
.B qrlogin -l nodes=2:ppn=4,walltime=1:00:00
.B qrsh -l nodes=2:ppn=4,walltime=1:00:00
.fi
.PP
The following interactively runs the uptime command on a single
processor on one compute node:
.nf
.B qrsh -l nodes=1:ppn=1 uptime
.fi
.PP
The following initiates a 4-hour xterm interactive session with access
to a total of four 4-processor nodes:
.nf
.B qsh -l nodes=4:ppn=4,walltime=4:00:00
.fi
.PP
The following interactively execute the MPI program "mpiprog" in the
current working directory on 32 processors with a maximum run time of
2 hours:
.nf
.B qmpiexec -l nodes=8:ppn=4,walltime=2:00:00 ./mpiprog
.B qmpirun -l nodes=8:ppn=4,walltime=2:00:00 ./mpiprog

.SH BUGS
.B qrsh
, 
.B qsh
, 
.B qmpiexec
, and 
.B qmpirun
all require that the user's home directory on the submit host be
identical to their home directory on the compute nodes, using a shared
file system such as NFS.

.SH AUTHOR
Troy Baer (troy (at) osc.edu)

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mpiexec (1),
.BR rlogin (1),
.BR rsh (1),
.BR qsub (1B),
.BR xterm (1)
