.TH dagsub 1 "$Date" "$Revision$" "PBS TOOLS"

.SH NAME
dagsub \- Submit directed acyclic graphs of jobs, similar to that of condor_submit_dag

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dagsub
[arguments] dagfile [dagfiles...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dagsub
submits directed acyclic graphs of jobs using a syntax similar to that
used by
.B condor_submit_dag.
It does this by invoking the PBS/TORQUE
.B qsub
command for each job/node in the job dependency graph with the
necessary dependency arguments.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h or \-help
Print usage/help summary
.TP
.B \-force
Overwrite files that normally wouldn't be overwritten.
.TP
.B \-no\_fork
Process DAGs synchronously in the foreground.  Normally, 
.B dagsub
will fork off a copy of itself per DAG file, with the the parent
process exiting immediately.
.TP
.B \-no\_submit
Process DAGs but do not actually submit jobs.
.TP
.B \-v or \-verbose
Log additional information.
.TP
.B \-log logfile
Log informational messages to
.B logfile.
The default is [basename].log.  "\-" can be used to indicate logging
to stdout.
.TP
.B -maxidle NumberOfJobs
Allow at most NumberOfJobs idle jobs in DAG at any time.  (This is currently ignored.)
.TP
.B -maxjobs NumberOfJobs
Allow at most NumberOfJobs jobs in DAG at any time.  (This is currently ignored.)

.SH EXAMPLES

.nf
.B cat diamond.dag
.fi
.PP
JOB A A.pbs
.fi
JOB B B.pbs 
.fi
JOB C C.pbs
.fi
JOB D D.pbs
.fi
PARENT A CHILD B C
.fi
PARENT B C CHILD D
.fi
PRIORITY C 1
.fi
DOT diamond.dot
.PP

.nf
.B dagsub diamond.dag
.PP

Log messages will be written to diamond.log.

.SH LIMITATIONS

.B dagsub
does not support the full DAG syntax described at
http://www.cs.wisc.edu/condor/manual/v7.0/2_10DAGMan_Applications.html.
In particular, it does not currently support the following keywords
and features:
.PP
.B DATA
.fi
.B CATEGORY
.fi
.B MAXJOBS
.fi
.B CONFIG
.fi
.B ABORT-DAG-ON
.fi
Inner DAGs
.PP

.SH BUGS

When specifying "RETRY" on one of the parents (i.e.job1), a child will
sometimes be missing any other dependencies (i.e. job5 will only
depend on job1, even if the job5 has other parents, e.g. job2-4). In
other words, after job1 is complete, job2-4 + job5 can run
concurrently, when job5 supposed to wait for job2-4 finishing first.
The problem appears to be in dependency handling; if one of the
afterok jobs is in the 'C' state, state, the child job will only add
it to the dependency, and the rest of the parents job are left out.
Uncomment the RETRY in examples/dagsub/forecast/forecast.dag to see an
example of this.

Jobs sometimes fail to follow the "afterok" dependency.  This appears
to be a bug in TORQUE; see
http://www.supercluster.org/pipermail/torqueusers/2009-July/009282.html
for details.

.SH AUTHORS
Troy Baer (tbaer (at) utk.edu)
.fi
Patrick Lu (ylu13 (at) utk.edu)

.SH SEE ALSO
qsub(1B)