.TH pbs-spark-submit 1 "$Date$" "$Revision$" "PBS TOOLS"

.SH NAME
pbs-spark-submit \- Launch an Apache Spark based program inside a PBS job.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs-spark-submit
[arguments] <app jar | python file> [app options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pbs-spark-submit
launches an Apache Spark program within a TORQUE job, including
starting the Spark master and worker processes in standalone mode by
default.  The Spark program and its associated services will be
constrained by the resource limits of the job and will be killed off
when the job ends.  This effectively allows TORQUE to act as a Spark
cluster manager.

.P

.B pbs-spark-submit
works by leveraging the fact that Spark is cluster manager agnostic
and does not have a preference for how its services are started.
.B pbs-spark-submit
supports multiple underlying process startup mechanisms, including
.I pbsdsh
(the default) and
.I ssh
for clusters and
.I exec
for shared memory systems.  (
.I pbsdsh
and
.I exec
are preferred due to keeping the Spark processes as children of
.B pbs_mom
, allowing for proper resource accounting and signal delivery.)

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --help or -h
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
.B --init
Initialize the Spark master and worker processes.  This is the default.
.TP
.B --no-init
Do not initialize the Spark master and worker processes.  This is
intended for use in the second and subsequent invocations of Spark
programs within the same job.
.TP
.B --exec
Use the 
.I exec
process launcher.  Intended for use on standalone shared-memory and
NUMA systems.
.TP
.B --pbsdsh
Use the 
.I pbsdsh
process launcher.  Intended for use on clusters; this is the default.
.TP
.B --ssh
Use the 
.I ssh
process launcher.  Intended for use on clusters; should not be used
unless the pbsdsh launcher does not work for whatever reason.
.TP
.B --worker-on-mother-superior
Run a worker on the mother superior node as well as the driver program.
This is the default.
.TP
.B --no-worker-on-mother-superior or -N
Do not run a worker on the mother superior node, only the driver program.
This might be necessary if the driver program consumes a large amount of
memory.
.TP
.B --master-interface <IF> or -M <IF>
Have Spark master listen on network interface <IF> (e.g. eth1, ib0) rather
than the default.
.TP
.B --conf-dir <confdir> or -C <confdir>
Search for configuration properties in <confdir>.  This is equivalent
to setting the environment variable 
.I SPARK_CONF_DIR.
.TP
.B --log-dir <logdir> or -L <logdir>
Place logs in <logdir>.  This is equivalent to setting the environment
variable
.I SPARK_LOG_DIR.
.TP
.B --log4j-properties <propsfile> or -l <propsfile>
Read log4j properties from <propsfile>.  Note that this will override any
log4j properties set in
.I $SPARK_CONF_DIR.
.TP
.B --work-dir <workdir> or -d <workdir>
Use <workdir> as the Spark program's working directory; defaults to
the current working directory, unless the environment variable
.B SCRATCHDIR
is set, in which case that will be used.  The working directory 
.B MUST be shared across all nodes in the job.
.TP
.B --memory <memlimit> or -m <memlimit>
Set the per-worker memory limit to <memlimit>; defaults to the
physical memory on the node minus 1 GB.
.TP
.B --wpn <N> or --workers-per-node <N> or -t <N>
Launch <N> workers per node.  The default is 1.  Current Spark best practices
indicate that more than 1 worker per node is only beneficial with >200 GB of RAM
per node.
TP
.B --worker-cores <N> or -w <N>
Use <N> cores per worker.  The default is all available.
.TP
.B --pausetime <N> or -p <N>
Pause <N> seconds between startup stages (default 5)
.TP
.B --conf key=value or -D <key>=<value>
Set the Java property <key> to <value>.
.TP
.B --properties-file <propfile> or -P <propfile>
Read Java properties from <propfile>.
.TP
.B --class <classname>
Application's main class (for Java/Scala apps).
.TP
.B --name <name>
The name of your application.
.TP
.B --jars <jarlist>
Comma-separated list of local jars to include on the driver and executor classpaths.
.TP
.B --packages <pkglist>
Comma-separated list of maven coordinates of jars to include on the driver and executor classpaths. Will search the local maven repo, then maven central and any additional remote repositories given by --repositories. The format for the coordinates should be groupId:artifactId:version.
.TP
.B --exclude-packages <pkglist>
Comma-separated list of groupId:artifactId to exclude while resolving the dependencies provided in --packagesto avoid dependency conflicts.
.TP
.B --repositories <repolist>
Comma-separated list of additional remote repositories to search for the maven coordinates given with --packages.
.TP
.B --py-files <filelist>
Comma-separated list of .zip, .egg, or .py files to place on PYTHONPATH for Python apps.
.TP
.B --files <filelist>
Comma-separated list of files to be placed in the working directory of each executor.
.TP
.B --driver-memory <mem>
Memory for driver (e.g. 1000M, 2G; default is 1024M).
.TP
.B --driver-java-options <opts>
Extra Java options to pass to the driver.
.TP
.B --driver-library-path <libpath>
Extra library path entries to pass to the driver.
.TP
.B --driver-class-path <classpath>
Extra class path entries to pass to the driver. Note that jars added with --jars are automatically included in the classpath.
.TP
.B --executor-cores <cores>
Number of cores per executor (e.g. 1, 2, 12; default is all available).
.TP
.B --executor-memory <mem>
Memory per executor (e.g. 1000M, 2G; default is 1G).

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.B pbs-spark-submit
will use the following environment variables if set:

.TP
.B SPARK HOME
The location of the Apache Spark installation.
.B THIS MUST BE SET!
.TP
.B SPARK_LAUNCHER
The process launcher to use if one is not specified.  By default, this
is "pbsdsh".
.TP
.B SPARK_CONF_DIR
The directory to search for configuration settings, if it exists.  By
default, this is the "conf" subdirectory of the current working
directory.
.TP
.B SPARK_DAEMON_JAVA_OPTS
Command line options to pass to the Spark master and worker processes.
.TP
.B SPARK_LOCAL_DIRS
Node-local scratch directory.  By default, this is 
.B TMPDIR
if set and /tmp otherwise.
.TP
.B SPARK_LOG_DIR
The directory in which to place logs.  By default, this is the current
working directory.
.TP
.B SPARK_MASTER_PORT
The port on which the Spark master listens.  By default, this is 7077.
.TP
.B SCRATCHDIR
A shared scratch directory to use be used as the Spark program's
working directory.  By default, this is the current working directory.

.SH SPECIFYING SPARK JAVA PROPERTIES

In addition to any properties files or individual properties set on
the command line,
.B pbs-spark-submit
will read any file ending in .properties in the
.B SPARK_CONF_DIR
directory.

.SH EXAMPLES

The following job script will execute the Spark Python Pi example in
the current working directory on two nodes:

.NF
#PBS -N spark-pi
.BR
#PBS -j oe
.BR
#PBS -l nodes=2:ppn=1
.BR
#PBS -l walltime=1:00:00
.BR
cd $PBS_O_WORKDIR
.BR
module load spark
.BR
pbs-spark-submit $SPARK_HOME/examples/src/main/python/pi.py 800
.FI

.SH ASSUMPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS

.B pbs-spark-submit
makes two assumptions about its environment.  First, the Spark master
process will be run on the PBS job's mother superior node.  Second,
the working directory for the Spark programs is on a file system
shared across on nodes allocated to the job.

.SH AUTHORS
Troy Baer (troy (at) osc.edu)

.SH SEE ALSO
spark-submit(1), qsub(1B)
