.TH pbsdcp 1 "$Date$" "$Revision$" "PBS TOOLS"

.SH NAME
pbsdcp \- Distributed copy command for the PBS environment

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbsdcp
[-s|-g] [options] srcfile [...srcfiles...] target

.SH DESCRIPTION

In many PBS environments, there is often shared storage, such as home
directories or parallel file system, as well as storage local to each
compute host.  It is often desirable from a performance perspective to
have parallel jobs use a local file system as its working directory;
however, staging data in and out of these local file systems
dynamically can be a challenge.  
.B pbsdcp
automates the most common elements of this type of operation by 
.I scattering
files from shared storage into host-local scratch space on a set of
nodes, or by
.I gathering
files from host-local scratch space on a set of nodes into shared
storage.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-g
Gather mode. In this mode, the source files on each node are copied
into the shared target directory.
.TP
.B \-h
Help.  Print a help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-p
Preserve permissions.  This causes pbsdcp to attempt to preserve
(duplicate) in its copies the modification times and modes of the
source files, ignoring the umask.  (Note that this is identical to the
-p option in
.BR rcp (1).)
.TP
.B \-r
Recursive.  If any of the source files are directories, pbsdcp copies
each subtree rooted at that name.  (Note that this is identical to the
-r option in 
.BR rcp (1).)
.TP
.B \-s
Scatter mode (default).  In this mode, a copy of each source files is
created in an instance of the target directory on each node assigned
to the job.

.SH EXAMPLES

Scatter (default) mode:
.PP
.nf
.B pbsdcp -s infile1 infile2 $TMPDIR
.fi
.PP
Gather mode:
.PP
.nf
.B pbsdcp -g $TMPDIR/outfile'*' $HOME
.fi
.PP
Using both scatter and gather:
.PP
.nf
# Assume $PBS_O_WORKDIR is on a shared file system, eg. NFS
.B cd $PBS_O_WORKDIR
.B pbsdcp -s mpi_prog infile1 infile2 $TMPDIR
.B cd $TMPDIR
.B mpiexec ./mpi_prog
.B pbsdcp -g output'*' $PBS_O_WORKDIR
.fi

.SH BUGS

Gather mode does not attempt to resolve namespace collisions between
files on different nodes with the same name.
.PP
When using wildcards in gather mode, it is necessary to escape the
wildcards so that they are not expanded by a shell on the mother
superior node of the job.

.SH AUTHOR
Troy Baer (tbaer (at) utk.edu)
Doug Johnson (djohnson (at) osc.edu)

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qsub (1B),
.BR rcp (1)
