.TH qexec 1 "$Date$" "$Revision$" "PBS TOOLS"

.SH NAME
qexec \- Workalike for SGE qlogin, qrsh, and qsh commands

.SH SYNOPSIS
qexec [qsub_arguments]
.PP
qlogin [qsub_arguments]
.PP
qrsh [qsub_arguments] [command [cmdargs]]
.PP
qsh [qsub_arguments]
.PP
qmpiexec [qsub_arguments] [mpiexec_arguments] command [cmdargs]
.PP
qmpirun [qsub_arguments] [mpiexec_arguments] command [cmdargs]

.SH DESCRIPTION
qexec is a wrapper around the PBS/TORQUE
.B qsub \-I
interactive job submission functionality, which implements a number of
different interactive job submission behaviors depending on how it is
invoked.  Several of these behaviors are similar to the Sun Grid
Engine (SGE) commands of the same name.
.PP
The default behavior for qexec (also known as "qlogin" mode) behaves
like the rlogin command.  It initiates an interactive session on a
compute node, with resource limits as specified on the command line.
.PP
In "qrsh" mode, qexec behaves like the rsh command.  If a command is
specified, it will execute that command interactively in the context
of a batch job.  If a command is not specified, qrsh will act like
qlogin.
.PP
The "qsh" mode of qexec is similar to "qlogin" mode, in that it
initiates an interactive session.  However, instead of that
interactive session being a shell, it is contained in an xterm window.
Note that X11 remote display most be working properly for qsh to
succeed.
.PP
The "qmpiexec" and "qmpirun" modes of qexec interactively execute a
single MPI program in the current working directory.

.SH OPTIONS
All variations of qexec accept any valid PBS/TORQUE arguments to
qsub(1B).  qmpiexec and qmpirun also accept virtually any valid
argument to mpiexec(1).

.SH EXAMPLES
The following are all equivalent to each other, in that they all
request a 1-hour interactive session with access to a total of two
4-processor nodes:
.nf
.B qexec -l nodes=2:ppn=4,walltime=1:00:00
.B qrlogin -l nodes=2:ppn=4,walltime=1:00:00
.B qrsh -l nodes=2:ppn=4,walltime=1:00:00
.fi
.PP
The following interactively runs the uptime command on a single
processor on one compute node:
.nf
.B qrsh -l nodes=1:ppn=1 uptime
.fi
.PP
The following initiates a 4-hour xterm interactive session with access
to a total of four 4-processor nodes:
.nf
.B qsh -l nodes=4:ppn=4,walltime=4:00:00
.fi
.PP
The following interactively execute the MPI program "mpiprog" in the
current working directory on 32 processors with a maximum run time of
2 hours:
.nf
.B qmpiexec -l nodes=8:ppn=4,walltime=2:00:00 ./mpiprog
.B qmpirun -l nodes=8:ppn=4,walltime=2:00:00 ./mpiprog

.SH BUGS
qrsh, qsh, qmpiexec, and qmpirun all require that the user's home
directory on the submit host be identical to their home directory on
the compute nodes, using a shared file system such as NFS.

.SH AUTHOR
Troy Baer (troy (at) osc.edu)

.SH SEE ALSO
mpiexec(1), rlogin(1), rsh(1), qsub(1B), xterm(1)
